# gch2
Objective
=========

I have edited my workspace to create ISO images for general use. Original build files remain (build-iso).
It originally used the preseed system of debian, but now it only supports AutoInstall for Ubuntu 22.04.

References
==========

As of 22.04, the EFI boot image (boot/grub/efi.img) is no longer included in the ISO image.
Please refer to the following document for more details and a workaround

* https://askubuntu.com/questions/1403546/ubuntu-22-04-build-iso-both-mbr-and-efi

Instructions for use
====================

To download the ISO image and populate the initial files, the following tasks are performed only once.

    $ make download
    $ make init

The following tasks must be performed each time an ISO file is generated;

    $ make setup
    $ env LANG=C make geniso

In Ubuntu 22.04, the geniso task might be failed due to the locale, so it is safe to specify LANG=C.

user-data file
--------------

Customization of the installation process focuses on config/user-data.

* config/user-data.efi - Configuration to create ESP area for UEFI boot
* config/user-data.mbr - Configuration for MBR (BIOS) boot

Please place the preferred configuration file to the config/user-data.

The config/user-data.efi file is linked as config/user-data as the default setting.
If your system doesn't support the EFI boot, please use the config/user-data.mbr, instead.

The following is a summary of the major setting parameters.

Default user password
---------------------

Change the username: and password: lines in user-data as desired.

* ID: glatt
* Password: secret

The hash value specified in the password: line was generated by the command,

    $ openssl passwd -6 -salt "$(openssl rand -hex 8)" secret

Other settings
==============

SSH keys
--------

Following is an example for providing ssh keys to the default user, ubuntu.

    ssh:
      authorized-keys:
        - "ssh-ed25519 AAAAC3NzaC1lZDI1NTE5AAAAAIH8mvfUPhRddvGXBxGcvwo5m3CRVOf8RbFXwaUa9mhLX comment"
        - "..."




